= Diary

== 2010-06-06 / HTML Won't Do

There have proven to be significant issues associated with translating markup to HTML and having QED evalute the HTML, rather than plain text. To begin with different markup engines translate special characeters in differnt ways. RDoc for instance will translate astrisks around a word into 'b' tags, whereas Textile translates them to 'em' tags. Still other characters are translated into HTML escape codes, eg. <code>\&amp;#8216;</code>. There are a variety of these and each markup language will translate them according to it's own rules (or not at all). This means pattern matches in advice have to take these translations into account. Instead of matching on an asterisk we might need to match on +<b>+. A minor naggle perhaps, but it means being exceptionally aware of all translaterions that occur, and moreover, that applique may not be portable across markup languages.

There are other discrepencies as well such as the translation of code blocks to \<pre> vs. \<pre>\<code> tags, but all this aside, while perhaps annoying, it can be managed. A normalization procedure can help mitage the issues. However, the ultimate problem is your classic YAGNI, the fact that little, if anything, is gained by using HTML as the defacto document format. And this is simply because everyone will write there documents in a text-based markup, none of which fully support the HTML that QED could utilize. For instance RDoc and Markdown do not have a notation for tables (although extended Markdown might). Textile does not have a clean notation for \<pre> blocks --you have to use \<pre>! And ASCIIDoc, while a very capable documentation system has a verbose syntax that is not particullary suited to reading in plain text. Perhaps if all the available markdown languages were equally as capable, it would be worth the additional effort. But lacking this I beleive more advantage can ultimately be gained by allowing QED to have it's own markup syntax one suited best to it's purpose.


== 2010-02-03 / Some Determinations

In the end I have decided on loading helpers on the fly via
special AHREF links. We still need a plan for loading global
helpers though.

Also, per last entry, Before and After stays b/c When doesn't
quite cover the usecase. However, I definately encourge the use
of helper methods in place of Before and After clauses.


== 2010-01-28 / Before and After

Wouldn't it better to allow helpers to define methods, which
can be called in the steps for setting things up, rather than
using "magic" Before and After clauses which give no indication
that something has happened?

  = Examples

  == Example #1

  For example #1 we will use example1[helper/example1] support file.
  First we need to prepare the example. It is a complex process, so we
  have made a special method for it. See the helper[helper/example1]
  file for details.

    ex = prepare_example1

  Now we can show that the example is hip.

    ex.assert.hip == true

So we could get rid of Before(:step) and After(:step) definitions this
way, and it's not such a big loss, b/c we still have #When, and 
After(:Step) is of very rare utility which can be worked around.


== 2010-01-30 / The Best Way to Handle Helpers

1) Should helpers be stored in a special location relative
to the demo file, from which all helpers in that location
are loaded automatically. This simplifies loading, but it
makes support for per-demo helpers more awkward.
This option also means taking special consideration for
helpers when documenting --any reference to them will have
to be tacked-on rather then be an integral part of the document
itself.

We might do something like this:

  demos/
    demo1.rdoc
    demo1/
      helper.rb
    demo2.rdoc
    demo2/
      helper.rb
    share/
      helper.rb

Such that demo1/helper.rb only applies to demo1.rdoc, and 
likewise for demo2, but both use share/helper.rb.

2) Or, should the demo be able to specify which helpers to
load via href links. This allows full flexability it selecting
behavior for the demo. It also means the documentation will
have references to helpers built-in (although they will have
to be augmented when documenting to ensure the hrefs link
correctly). But session-oriented advice doesn't make much
sense in a per-demo context. We could ignore that, or place
session advice in a separate location. While this option
is more flexible, it also means demos may be more difficult
to follow, because one must scan the links in the document
to determine which helpers are being used.

An example demo might look like:

  == Examples

  == Example 1

  For example #1 we will use example1[helper/example1] support file.

  ... and so on ...

  == Example 2
  
  For example #2 we will use example2[helper/example2] support file.
  
  ... and so on ...

In which case it seems prudent to load these helpers as they are 
evaluated, rather than all at once at the start. However this insinuates
that there is only one before and after advice at a time, and when
would before advice for the entire demo run, upon loading the helper?

I think it would be better to use When clauses. Then the helpers could
be loaded all at once at the start and it would not matter. And instead of
<code>Before do</code> use <code>When /*/ do</code> for general before
clauses.

However, if referenced helpers are to be loaded all at once at the start,
it seems almost silly to even allow helpers to be referenced in the
document. With the exception of using them as footnotes, it conveys too
much positional indication. So either load them when they are encountered,
or use option #1.

