= RELEASE HISTORY

== 2.7.0 | 2011-11-18

With this version QED has reached a significant design milestone.
The underlying code base has a significantly better API that
should stand the test of time. In most respects the changes will
not effect older QED documents, but it does effect block arity for
applique rules. Whereas previously the arity matched the number
of Regexp captures, now all the captures are passed to the block
as a single argument. This change can be delt with in one of two
ways, either accept the single argument and splat it to varaibles
in the subsequenct code block, or, if using Ruby 1.9+, use a
parenthetical argument group, e.g.

   When '(((\S+))) or (((\S+)))' do |(a,b)|
     ...
   end

In addition to this, a new notation for captures has been added.
With it captures can now be written as /(\S+)/ and non-capture regular
expressions simplified to /?:\S+/.

Changes:

* Deprecate use of '...' as plain text example indicator.
* Use confection gem for configuration.
* Must use -f for most reporters.
* Use single match argument for block parameters.
* More robust handling of rule arguments.
* Show full backtrace in reporters.
* Overhaul evaluator using better signal names.
* Underlying observer API redesigned (effects reporters).


== 2.6.3 | 2011-10-23

Fixed output status. When tests fail or error the `qed`
command with exit -1 instead to 0. Also, the default
spec location uses only one of `qed`, `demo` or `spec`
instead of all.

Changes:

* Fix output status, exit -1 on test failure or error.
* Fix default spec location to only use one or the other.


== 2.6.1 | 2011-07-02

A friend suggested QED default the load path to lib and
automatically look for QED demos in default locations
(qed, demo, spec) if no files are passed to it on the
command line. So it is.

Changes:

* Default loadpath option to lib/.
* Default files to markup files in spec/, demo/ and qed/.
* Fix website links (you might acutally find things now).


== 2.6.0 | 2011-07-01

Thie release fixes some issues with reporters, further refines
their output and adds the start of a new reporter called dtrace.
Also the Table and Data macros have been updated. Table can now
handle a YAML stream with the :stream option, and Data no long runs
the text through YAML.load whe the file name ends in .yml or .yaml,
In other words it's for raw fixture data. Finally the documentation
tool has been improved ot simplify HTML generation and also add a
format option for creating a simple plain text merging instead.

Changes:

* Data is raw and no longer uses YAML.load.
* Table can handle a YAML stream, via :stream option.
* Better handling of code snippets.
* Backtrace count defaults to 2 rather than 3.
* Load ansi/core, rather than ansi/code.
* Doc output setting takes a file name instead of directory.
* Support for plain text format (by simple file merge).
* HTML output is single file, jquery comes from CDNJ.


== 2.5.2 | 2011-06-26

This release focuses on reporter improvements. Better trace
information is now displayed, and the max nmber of backtrace
lines can be set with the -t option, or $trace environment
variable.

Changes:

* Trace option takes a max count setting (0 for all).
* Trace count can also be set via $trace environment variable.
* Added TAP-Y reporter.


== 2.5.1 | 2011-06-07

This release makes a number adjustments and fixes one majort issue
with the way the latest AE library counts assertions.

Changes:

* Fix references to AE assertion counts.
* @_ stores the return value of last execution block.
* Backtrace filter omits references to AE library.


== 2.5.0 | 2010-11-04

The latest release of QED improves on applique loading, such that each
demonstrandum gets it's own localized set. The CLI has also been modified
so that there is no longer a defualt location, the directory or files to run
must be specified.

Changes:

* Better handling of Applique.
* Remove Advice class --advice is now stored in Applique.
* Each applique file is it's own module.
* Advice from each applique is applied.
* CLI requires files be specified.


== 2.4.0 | 2010-09-02

All engines go! QED has not been tested against 1.8.6, 1.8.7 and 1.9.2.
Underthehood steps are not organized in doubely-linked lists, which makes
them much more robust and flexible. This release also improves scoping,
test counts, and inline documentation parsing.

Changes:

* Use new doubly-linked list step design.
* Fix -r option on command line.
* Provide #instance_exec core extension for Ruby 1.8.6.
* Scope is extended by and includes applique.


== 2.3.0 | 2010-07-14

Bug to the scurry! QED has broken through the code/document ceiling and
is cracking ectoskeletons all the way to the bank. A proverbal can of
Roach-Be-Gone this is! What's that you say? I will exlpain. QED can now
run directly against code comments. Simply slip the qed command the -c
option and feed it some ruby scripts, and presto watch you commnets
fail ;) I think you can figure out what to do next.

In addition to this coolness QED has been improved under the floor
boards as well. The parser, which is much faster, now blocks commentary
paragraphs and code examples togeher in one-to-one pairings. Not only
does this clean-up the code, but it opens up the potential for Around
advice in a future version.

Changes:

* NEW! Ruby script comment run mode.
* Better parsing system uses commentary-example pairs.
* Colon can also be used to specify plain text (along with ellipsis).
* Now distributed under the more permissive Apache 2.0 license.


== 2.2.2 | 2010-06-21

An issue was reported in which the a code block at the very
top of a demo was being ignored. This release fixes this issue
by rewriting the parser (much better now thanks!). At the same
time the Data and Table methods have been polished, both of
which can now pick up sample data relative to the current demo.

Changes:

* Rewrite parser and fix top code issue.
* Data method cannot write data, instead executes block.
* Data and Table methods look for file relative to demo first.
* Added -R option to run demos relative to project root.


== 2.2.1 | 2010-06-20

Remove dependencies to Tilt and Nokogiri. Should have
done this in last release but alas --there is so
much to do.

Changes:

* Removed HTML parsing dependencies.
* Reduce Advice to a single class.


== 2.2.0 | 2010-06-19

This release returns to a text-based evaluator, rather
then use HTML. Processing HTML proved to have too many
edge cases to be effective --both in implementation
and in end-usage. So to remedy the situation QED has
return to supportting simple markup formats such as
RDoc and Markup.

This release also adds multi-pattern advice. Instead of
a single pattern, multiple patterns can be matched
sequentially. This make it a easier to match large text
descriptions without restoring to regular expressions.

In addition QED now supports raw text blocks. By ending
a description section in ellipsis (...), the subsequent
code setion becomes a plain text section and is passed
into the argument list of any matching When advice. This
makes it easy to scaffold fixture files, for example.

Finally, this release also refines the evaluation scopes.
Where before, a new binding was being created, each was 
attached to the TOPLEVEL, and therefore not truly isolated 
on a per-dcoument basis. To correct, QED now mocks the
TOPLEVEL providing a new instance of this mock object for
each document.

Changes:

* No longer uses HTML for document processing.
* Support for plain text blocks using ellipsis.
* New sequential multi-pattern matches.
* Mock TOPLEVEL at both the demo and applique levels.
* Adjust color support for latest ANSI release.


== 2.1.1 | 2010-04-08

Fixed bug introduced in the last version that executed all
scripts in a single binding. There needed to be a binding
for each script.

Changes:

* Fixed cross-script bug by moving binding instantiation into Script class.


== 2.1.0 | 2010-04-07

QED documents are now run in the TOPLEVEL context, rather
than in a subclass of Scope. This ensures code runs as
one would expect it too in the wild.

Changes:

* Scope.new redirect to TOPLEVEL.
* DomainLanguage module is added to include into TOPLEVEL.


== 2.0.0 | 2010-03-04

This is a major new release of QED. All demonstration documents
are now converted to HTML via Tilt (http://github.com/tilt) before
being run through the test runner. So QED now supports any markup
format supported by Tilt, as well as ordinary HTML. Simply
stated, QED process <tt>pre</tt> tags as code and everything else
as comments. Nokogiri is used to parse the HTML.

Changes:

* HTML serves as a common format.
* New dependencies: Tilt and Nokogiri.
* New system of version numbers.


== 1.2.0 | 2009-12-07

This release adds a significant new feature, Comment Matchers.
These work like Cucumber allowing for background code to
be run when matching comments occur --a much better solution
for setup and teardown.

Changes:

* 2 Major Enhancements

  * Added command matchers via #When method.
  * All QED methods are now capitalized.

* 2 Minor Enhancements

  * Use OptionParser for qed exectuable.
  * Verbatim reporter is literally verbatim.


== 1.1.1 | 2009-09-05

This release 

Changes:

* 2 Major Enhancements

  * Helpers are provided by bottom code.
  * Added Markdown header support.

* 2 Minor Enhancements

  * Use Ansi project for color output.
  * Use latest RDoc version.


== 1.0.0 | 2009-06-30

QED has found itself. It took some time to really figure out
what this project "was" and how it should best be utilized.
This release is the initial release that puts QED in proper
perpective.

Changes:

* 2 Major Enhancement

    * Partial rewrite of a project that was once called "Quarry".
    * Now uese AE for assertions.

