= Standard Sections

QED demos are light-weight specification documents, highly suitable
to interface-driven design. The documents are divided up into
clauses separated by blank lines. Clauses that are flush to the 
left margin are always explanation or comment clauses. Indented
clauses are always executable code.

Each code section is executed in order of appearance, within a
rescue wrapper that captures any failures or errors. If neither
a failure or error occur then the code gets a "pass".

For example, the following passes:

    (2 + 2).assert == 4

While the following would "fail", as indicated by the raising of 
an Assertion error:

    expect Assertion do
      (2 + 2).assert == 5
    end

And this would have raised a NameError:

    expect NameError do
      nobody_knows_method
    end

= Neutral Code

There is no means of specifying that a code clause is neutral code,
i.e. that it should be executed but not tested. Thus far, such a
feature has proven to be a YAGNI.

= Defining Custom Assertions

The context in which the QED code is run is a self-extended module, thus
reusable macros can be created simply by defining a method.

    def assert_integer(x)
      x.assert.is_a? Integer
    end

Now lets try out our new macro definition.

    assert_integer(4)

Let's prove that it can also fail:

    expect Assertion do
      assert_integer("IV")
    end

= Helper File

Helpers can be defined at the bottom of any QED document by placing the code
after a triple-dash divider (ie. "---"). You can use that to load optional
AE features, or define your own specialized assertion methods. Helpers
can be defined in a separate files using +require+ or +load+ in the bottom
section to import them. The bottom section is run first, before any the steps.

= Before and After Clauses

QED supports *before* and *after* clauses in a specification
through the use of before and after code blocks. Before and after
clauses are executed at the beginning and at the end of each
subsequent step.

We use a *before* clause if we want to setup some code at the
start of each step.

    a, z = nil, nil

    Before do
      a = "BEFORE"
    end

And an *after* clause to teardown objects after a step.

    After do
      z = "AFTER"
    end

Notice we assigned +a+ and +z+ before the block. This was to ensure
their visibility in the scope later. Now, lets verify that the *before*
and *after* clauses work.

    a.assert == "BEFORE"

    a = "A"
    z = "Z"

And now.

    z.assert == "AFTER"

There can only be one before or after clause at a time. So if we
define a new *before* or *after* clause later in the document,
it will replace the current clause(s) in use.

As a demonstration of this:

    Before do
      a = "BEFORE AGAIN"
    end

We will see it is the case.

    a.assert == "BEFORE AGAIN"

Only use *before* and *after* clauses when necessary --specifications
are generally more readable without them. Indeed, some developers
make a policy of avoiding them altogether. YMMV.

= External Data

When creating testable demonstrations, there are times when sizable
chunks of data are needed. It is convenient to store such data in
a separate file. The +Data+ method makes is easy to load such files.

    Data('data.txt').assert =~ /dolor/

All files are found relative to the location of current document.

= Tabular Steps

The +Table+ method is similar to the +Data+ method except that it
expects a YAML file, and it can take a block to iterate the data over.
This makes it easy to test tables of examples.

The arity of the table block corresponds to the number of columns in
each row of the table. Each row is assigned in turn and run through
the coded step. Consider the following example:

Every row in the {table.yml table}[table.yml] will be assigned to
the block parameters and run through the subsequent assertion.

    Table 'table.yml' do |x, y|
      x.upcase.assert == y
    end

= Comment Triggers

QED also supports comment match triggers. With the +When+ method one can
define setup and teardown procedures by matching against comment text.
For example:

    When 'given a setting @a equal to (((\d+)))' do |n|
      @a = n.to_i
    end

Now, @a will be set to 1 whenever a comment like this one contains,
"given a setting @a equal to 1".

    @a.assert == 1

A string pattern is translated into a regular expression. In fact, you can
use a regular expression if you need more control over the match. When
using a string all spaces are converted to <tt>\s+</tt> and anything within
double-parenthesis is treated as raw regular expression. Since the above
example has (((\d+))), the actual regular expression contains <tt>(\d+)</tt>,
so any number can be used. For example, "given a setting @a equal to 2".

    @a.assert == 2

Typically you will want to put triggers is helper files, rather then
place them directly in the demonstration document.

This concludes the basic overview of QED's specification system, which
is itself a QED document. Yes, we eat our own dog food.

---
1[helper.rb] Helper

